---
publish: 1
---

Since an induced current always opposes any change in magnetic flux through a circuit, how is it possible for the flux to change at all? The answer is that Lenz’s law gives only the direction of an induced current; the magnitude of the current depends on the resistance of the circuit. The greater the circuit resistance, the less the induced current that appears to oppose any change in flux and the easier it is for a flux change to take effect. If the loop in Fig. 29.14 were made out of wood (an insulator), there would be almost no induced current in response to changes in the flux through the loop. Conversely, the less the circuit resistance, the greater the induced current and the more difficult it is to change the flux through the circuit. If the loop in Fig. 29.14 is a good con ductor, an induced current flows as long as the magnet moves relative to the loop. Once the magnet and loop are no longer in relative motion, the induced current very quickly decreases to zero because of the nonzero resistance in the loop. The extreme case occurs when the resistance of the circuit is zero. Then the induced current in Fig. 29.14 will continue to flow even after the induced emf has disappeared— that is, even after the magnet has stopped moving relative to the loop. Thanks to this persistent current, it turns out that the flux through the loop is exactly the same as it was before the magnet started to move, so the flux through a loop of zero resistance never changes. Exotic materials called superconductors do indeed have zero resistance; we dis cuss these further in Section 29.8